Kernagic
========

Kernagic is a tool for spacing fonts. It provides a selection of methods that
can be previewed and tuned interactively. 

To fit into a diverse set of workflows, Kernagic uses UFO fonts for input. UFO
can act as a superset of other formats, and tools like
[Fontforge](http://github.com/fontforge/fontforge/) can be used for converting
to and from it.

Some methods relies on automatically detected rythm points, if the rythm point
detection works poorly with your font, or you want to override spacing
decisions, you can insert your own rythm points by clicking in the preview;
rythm point overrides are saved in the individual glyph files. Clicking below
the x-height of a glyph removes custom overrides; clicking above it inserts a
single rythm point to be used for both left and right sides of the glyphs.

If metrics are determined, they can be saved back into the UFO (shifting the x
co-ordinates of all points in all glyphs to change the left bearings, and
setting a new advance width to set the right bearings.)

For help about the commandline interface, `kernagic --help` provides further
documentation.

Spacing Methods
===================

These are the various spacing methods implemented in Kernagic to date. The
application is intended to be modular, so any programmer familiar with C and
GTK+ can explore their own methods:

Inkbounds
--------------

A simple method, included for debugging only; no side-bearings.

Renaissance Cadence Table
-------------------------

A predefined spacing table method. 

This table encodes knowledge of glyph morphologies, found in Frank Blokland's
excellent [Letter Model](http://lettermodel.org). This table is also provided
as an external text file; other files following the same format can be used
for detailed control over this method.

It assumes your typeface is a traditional renaissance design, with classic
glyph proportions, and automatically prepares a fitting.

Currently this only produces metrics, not kerning.

Snap gap
--------

This methods permits specifying a desired gap between left and right rythm
points of glyphs. The bearings indicated by the gap is also snapped to grid in
such a manner that the advance of the glyphs is a multiple of the snap value.

Currently this only produces metrics, not kerning.
